# Producer and Consumer Model Simulation

## Overview
This project simulates a classical producer and consumer problem.

## Problem Statement

* There are 3 generators and each produces a unique kind of material independently. All these materials are stored in an input buffer with size 10 before they are forwarded to the operators. 
* We have 3 operators with same priority who are responsible for producing the products based on these materials. 
* Each product needs 2 different kinds of materials. Each time an operator needs 2 tools for this purpose. There are totally 3 tools provided for these operators. 
* An operator can only process one product at one time.
  1. When an operator gets both the materials and tools, it can produce a product within a limited time varied from 0.01 second to 1 second. Otherwise, it has to wait until all the necessities are met. 
  2. Operator will grab either materials or tools first, however it can only get one thing at one time. 
  3. If an operator decides to process another product before finish current product, it can put the materials and tools back and re-get new materials and tools. 
  4. Operator has to set the tool back after it finished a product because other operators may need these tool in future. 
* All the products are put into a size-unlimited output queue. 
* An operator cannot start a new product before it puts the product into the output queue. 
* Some restrictions may apply to these products: 
  1. No same products can be next to each other in this queue. We say that two products are same if they are made from the same kinds of materials. 
  2. The difference of the number of any two kinds of products produced should be less than 10, for example, we can have 10 of product A and 15 of product B, but it is not allowed if we have 10 of A and 21 of B because the difference is 11 which is larger than 10.
  
## Implementation

There are several class-like structures implemented as an aid for keeping track of all the resources and records. 

* ** Inventory: ** This structure keeps track of how many final products have been produced by the operators. During the runtime of the program, inventory information will be printed out and updated once a product has been made by the operator.
* ** Tools: ** The tools structure is used to keep track of how many tools have been rented out to the genetators. Fetching tools will be blocked and the generators will need to wait until there are enough tools for them.
* ** Array Blocking Queue: ** In this problem, an array blocking queue is implemented as a structure. The queue is used to 
  1. send materials from the generators to the operators once 10 materials have been generated;
  2. store final products generated by the operators. 
